---
layout: post
title: Internship Week 4
---
## Still Trecking Away ft "What To Google When I Need Help?"

## Introduction 
Howdy there! 

I can't believe at the end of this week I would have been at Craneware for four whole weeks! On the 4th of July, this will offically be the one month mark! I can't believe I have almost been at Craneware for an entire month.
#### Disclaimer: Please note that this is a personal blog and not affiliated with Craneware. All blog views and opinions are my own. 
## Week 4 (25/06/18 - 29/06/18)
At the beginning of the week, I finally got TFS access! HURRAH!! TFS is the work management tool that Craneware use for each team. Finally having access means that I can finally commit the work I have been doing, have it reviewed and add my code to a real world product. Exciting huh? Once I had commited my changes, Vladimirs went about reviewing my work. 

As he was doing this, I got started on a new task. I started to learn about Entity Framework. Entity Framework huh? Never heard of it? SHOCKING! Well I'm going to be honest, neither have I so it's time I became an expert about it. I realise that I talk about me researching things but never actually talking about how I do that. I want to dive into the how because I think it's obvious what to google and what to look for, but from someone outwith a technical subject, they dont't really know what to google and what is the most important information to take from what they find. 

#### *** Aside Begins ***
So here is a side story of how I came to realise this, you can skip if you don't care. I realised that some people do not know what to google and what to look for when issues arrive from a courseowrk task at University. We had a masters student who had not done any computing work ever. We were tasked with creating a database and creating a website front end. We divided up the tasks and set off. Since she had not done any development work, she ran into issues early on and really struggled to find what she needed answers to. I helped by answering the ones I already knew how to fix and suggested for the harder ones, answers from [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/). When she came to find answers herself, she really didn't know what to look for so I broke it down how I go about doing it. I was surprised that people didn't know what to look for. So below is my process of researching for everything and anything I need to know: 

Well, first google becomes my best friend. This is the most obvious thing since it is a search engine and a no bad one at that. So to begin researching for Entity Framework, I searched for "Entity Framework C#". I first go straight to the [Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/data/adonet/ef/getting-started) since these are the top dawgs who develop it. I read through this and try to understand it. Sometimes though, they can explain it in a way that is really unhelpful. So I go back and read information on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity_Framework). If I still don't really understand I then look at beginner websites likes [this](http://www.entityframeworktutorial.net/) or [this](https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/363040/An-Introduction-to-Entity-Framework-for-Absolute-B). If I am really not understanding what is going on, I begin to google things like "Entity Framework Explained" or "Entity Framework for beginners Stack Overflow". I then find really great discussions like [this one](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11703759/please-explain-entity-framework-to-me-asp-net) where usually people explain things clear as day. If the internet gets me no where, I start to resort to old fashioned books, which I have found in certian situations to be extrmly useful, especially for example, [these pocket guides](https://www.amazon.co.uk/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Dstripbooks&field-keywords=O%27Reilly+programming+pocket+guide&rh=n%3A266239%2Ck%3AO%27Reilly+programming+pocket+guide) which help when I am going back and picking up a programming language. But there is also nothing wrong with asking people for help and I would always encourage to do that when you are getting no where! When I am googling for help, I can literally be searching for hours until I find a slight glimmer of hope of being able to overcome an issue. You have to keep lookng unti, you can find an answer in the context you are working in.  

Basically, the TL;DR is google, a lot, the more you search for what you need, the easier it will become to pick out the useful information. So GET GOOGLING!

Anyway, that was a longer than expected detour, back to week 4!!!

#### *** Aside Ends ***

So what I have learned about Entity Framework is that:
- Entity Framework is simply a collection of APIs for .NET which are used for carrying out access to data within the software that you write. 
- Entity Framework is an Object Relational Mapper (ORM) which is explained better than I ever could here: <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1279613/what-is-an-orm-and-where-can-i-learn-more-about-it>. But what I noted from Pluralsight (A website full of online videos to help you get started on anything) is that "it is designed to reduce the friction between how data is structured in a relational databse and how you define classes".
- There are many different approaches to develoing with Entity Framework including code-first (where you write the code and then the database is designed from the code produced), database-first (where the database is designed first and the code is produced from the database) and model-first (where you model the database visually and then derive the database and code from that) approaches. I am going to be using the code-first approach. 
- If you would like to dive a lil' deeper, check out [this tutorial!](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/entity_framework/index.htm)

Next, I dug into reading about Inversion Of Control and Dependecy Injection. I thought they were the same thing to start with but then I found [this](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/131451/difference-between-dependency-injection-di-and-inversion-of-control-ioc) really great article that explains it really well. But basically:

Inversion of Control = "Inversion of control is a design paradigm with the goal of reducing awareness of concrete implementations from application framework code and giving more control to the domain specific components of your application." 

Dependecy Injection = "Dependency injection is a pattern used to create instances of classes that other classes rely on without knowing at compile time which implementation will be used to provide that functionality."

So basically Investion of Control is the methodology of what to do and Dependecy Injection is just one way of how to do it. Dependecy Injection is where you inject dependecies into the methods. There are three ways: 

1. constructor injection - passing dependecy into the constructor 
2. setter injection - passing dependecy into the setter method 
3. interface injection - passing dependecy into the setter methods of an interface

There are many advantages of this and they are explained excellently [here](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/19203/what-are-the-benefits-of-using-dependency-injection-and-ioc-containers).

I also got the chance to attend the sprint retrospective and planning sessions. A retrospective is where the sprint team come together and discuss how the sprint has gone for eachother and the team. I found this really interesting and I was able to pick up tips on how to work better when working in a sprint. These include asking more questions and to try to not take on too much work at any one time.  A sprint planing is where the team come together again and go through what wasn't complete in the last sprint and new work items in the backlogs and decide what to complete during the next sprint. From these meetings I was able to get a sense of how important planning actually is and also how important being realistic with how much work you will get done is to the progression of the team. 

Vladimirs got back to me with the changes needed with the code I had written. I found this to be the most useful feedback yet. To have a developer review what you have done and discuss where to improve is one of the most valuable discussions to any developer. From University they teach you how to generally be a good developer. But only by being in the industry you can develop and know what sort of style of coding is most useful. At Univeristy we get told to comment ALL the time. Whereas here at Craneware, they believe (and I have since turned to this opinion too) that code should be self-documenting. Why add commments to code when someone should read down and understand what is going on. This means using meaningful variable, method and class names. I found this more difficult than I thought due to the unfamiliarity with the data I was using. This was one of the things that Vladimirs picked up on and I recognise that it is an area that I need to improve. I am now proactively making sure that my naming conventions are simple and properly describe what I am doing. By doing this I am making sure my code is self-documenting and helps future development work by not having to sit and read through loads of unsightly commments. 

I also recieved the feedback that I need to seperate out methods more. When I was working on my first task, at first I was hesitant to actually create loads of classes. I didn't want to clutter up everything with classes. But from seprating some of the methods, I wonder why I didn't do this in the first place. Just by moving some of them into seperate classes has made my work more readable and it makes sense to pop them in a more meaningful names class so other developers can come along and know what and why the code does what it does. It also helps with unit testing too. 

This week I also attended a Test Driven Development Kata with Vladimirs and a few of the other interns. I'd never been to a kata before, not in this sense anyway. My sister attends Karate and they do kata's there, so I was confused as to what it meant in the content of software. I did some research and found [this website](http://codekata.com/) which explains it really well. Basically, in the sense of a software kata, it is a small amount of time set aside where you can dive into topics frequently. This is the ideal conditions to learn something new! At this kata we were learning about test driven development (TDD - if you want to know more see [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4303/why-should-i-practice-test-driven-development-and-how-should-i-start) and [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/804569/why-should-i-use-test-driven-development)). The TL;DR is that TDD is where you write the tests before you code. Since this is a practice that Craneware implement it is vital that we know how to do this properly. In this session we had some code that serialised items into three different types. This code did not work properly so we had to write unit tests for the desired functionality we wanted, which to start automatically failed because the inital code was wrong. To try to let everyone have a chance we went around the room getting people to fix the code for the previous test so it will pass and then write a new failing test. When it was my turn, I found it quite intimidating because the code itself was hard and I had to perform infront of all these geniuses. However, everyone helped me and made me feel quite comfortable in a situation where I usually feel quite uncomfortable. See this is what I really enjoy about Craneware. The company culture is just so friendly, welcoming and they genuinely look after for you. This is what I have found to be a crucial attribute in any company. From this kata, I learned that unit tests should truly capture the functionality you want and not just a "work around" functonality. This insight into how they do them will really help me progress during my time here. 

So this week has been jam packed!!! This has by far been my favourite week so far, I got to learn new things, challenge myself through my work and recieve feedback on how to improve. This is basically the baseline goals of what I wanted to do at an internship and to recieve all of that in one week has got me very excited for what the next eight weeks will have!

Until next time, 

Jay 
